Open Artistic License 2.0
-------------------------

Preamble

This license establishes the terms under which a software Package may
be used, copied, modified, distributed, and/or redistributed. The
intent is that the Copyright Holder maintains artistic control over
the development of the Package while giving the users of the Package
the right to use and distribute the Package, and the right to make
reasonable modifications.

You are always permitted to make arrangements wholly outside of this
license directly with the Copyright Holder of a given Package. If the
terms of this license do not permit the full use that you propose to
make of the Package, you should contact the Copyright Holder and seek
a different licensing arrangement.

Definitions:

"Package" refers to the collection of files distributed by the
Copyright Holder, and derivatives of that collection of files created
through textual modification.

"Standard Version" refers to such a Package if it has not been
modified, or has been modified in accordance with the wishes of the
Copyright Holder as specified below.

"Modified Version" refers to the Package, if it has been changed, and
such changes were not explicitly requested by the Copyright Holder.

"Copyright Holder" means the individual(s) or organization(s) named in
the copyright notice for the entire Package.

"You" and "your" refer to any person who would like to use, copy,
distribute, or modify the Package.

"Distribute" means providing a copy of the Package or making it
accessible to anyone else, or in the case of a company or
organization, to others outside of your company or organization.

"Distribution fee" is a fee you charge for providing a copy
of this Package to another party.

"Freely Available" means that no fee is charged for the right to
use the item, though there may be fees involved in handling the
item. It also means that recipients of the item may redistribute
it under the same conditions they received it.

"Source" form means the source code, documentation source, and
configuration files for the Package.

"Compiled" form means the compiled bytecode, object code, binary, or
any other form resulting from mechanical transformation or translation
of the Source form.

"Original License" means this Open Artistic License as Distributed
with the Standard Version of the Package.

Permission for Use and Modification Without Distribution

1. You are permitted to use the Standard Version and create and use
Modified Versions for any purpose without restriction, provided that
you do not Distribute the Modified Version.

Permissions for Redistribution of the Standard Version

2. You may Distribute verbatim copies of the Source form of the
Standard Version of this Package in any medium without restriction,
either gratis or for a Distributor Fee, provided that you duplicate
all of the original copyright notices and associated disclaimers. At
your discretion, such verbatim copies may or may not include a
Compiled form of the Package.

3. You may apply any bug fixes, portability changes, and other
modifications made available from the Copyright Holder. The resulting
Package will still be considered the Standard Version, and as such
will be subject to the Original License.

Distribution of Modified Versions of the Package as Source

4. You may Distribute your Modified Version as Source (either gratis
or for a Distributor Fee, and with or without a Compiled form of the
Modified Version) provided that you clearly document how it differs
from the Standard Version, including, but not limited to, documenting
any non-standard features, executables, or modules, and provided that
you also do ALL of the following:

    a) make the Modified Version available to the Copyright Holder of
       the Standard Version, perpetually licensed under the Original
       License, and waive all rights to terminate the license grant in
       the future, so that the Copyright Holder may include your
       modifications in the Standard Version. If any functionality of
       the Modified version requires access to a server-side
       component, the server-side component's source code must be
       included in the license grant to the Copyright Holder as above.

    b) ensure that installation of your Modified Version does not
       prevent the user installing or running the Standard Version. In
       addition, the Modified Version must bear a name that is
       different from the name of the Standard Version.

    c) distribute your Modified Version exclusively under the Original
       License.

Distribution of Compiled Forms of the Standard Version or Modified
Versions without the Source

5. You may Distribute Compiled forms of the Standard Version without
the Source, provided that you include complete instructions on how to
get the Source of the Standard Version. Such instructions must be
valid at the time of your distribution. If these instructions, at any
time while you are carrying out such distribution, become invalid, you
must provide new instructions on demand or cease further
distribution. If you provide valid instructions or cease distribution
within thirty days after you become aware that the instructions are
invalid, then you do not forfeit any of your rights under this
license.

6. You may Distribute a Modified Version in Compiled form without the
Source, provided that you comply with Section 4 with respect to the
Source of the Modified Version.

Aggregating or Linking the Package

7. You may aggregate the Package (either the Standard Version or
Modified Version) with other packages and Distribute the resulting
aggregation provided that you do not charge a licensing fee for the
Package. Distributor Fees are permitted, and licensing fees for other
components in the aggregation are permitted. The terms of this license
apply to the use and Distribution of the Standard or Modified Versions
as included in the aggregation.

8. You are permitted to link Modified and Standard Versions with other
works, to embed the Package in a larger work of your own, or to build
stand-alone binary or bytecode versions of applications that include
the Package, and Distribute the result. The terms of this license
apply to the use and Distribution of the Standard or Modified Versions
linked or embedded with another work.

Items That are Not Considered Part of a Modified Version

9. Works (including, but not limited to, modules and scripts) that
merely extend or make use of the Package, do not, by themselves, cause
the Package to be a Modified Version. In addition, such works are not
considered parts of the Package itself, and are not subject to the
terms of this license.

General Provisions

10. Any use, modification, and distribution of the Standard or
Modified Versions is governed by this Open Artistic License. By using,
studying, modifying or distributing the Package, you accept this
license. Do not use, study, modify, or distribute the Package, if you
do not accept this license.

11. If your Modified Version has been derived from a Modified Version
made by someone other than you, you are nevertheless required to
ensure that your Modified Version complies with the requirements of
this license.

12. This license does not grant you the right to use any trademark,
service mark, tradename, or logo of the Copyright Holder, or to use
the Copyright Holder's name to endorse or promote products derived
from this software.

13. This license includes the non-exclusive, worldwide, free-of-charge
patent license to make, have made, use, offer to sell, sell, import
and otherwise transfer the Package with respect to any patent claims
licensable by the Copyright Holder that are necessarily infringed by
the Package. If you institute patent litigation (including a
cross-claim or counterclaim) against any party alleging that the
Package constitutes direct or contributory patent infringement, then
this Open Artistic License to you shall terminate on the date that
such litigation is filed.

14. Termination of license: The Copyright Holder may terminate this
Open Artisic License to you at their sole discretion, at any time, and
without assigning any reason. Upon the termination of the License you
must immediately cease use of the Package. License termination will
also terminate your right to distribute any Modified Versions, and
versions embedded or linked in your own works, as well as the the
right of others to use or distribute any Modified Versions created by
you, or derived from a Modified Version created by you.

15. License exclusions: This license is NOT granted and does NOT apply
to ANY of the following entities:

    a) Criminal entities involved in the violation of individual
       rights, and any associated entities, including the members,
       owners, collaborators, beneficiaries, employees, contractors
       and affiliates of such entities. The term "criminal" in this
       context refers only to actions and entities that violate
       individual rights, not to those that are legislatively declared
       "criminal" by a government but don't involve the violation of
       individual rights. For a comprehensive explication of the
       concept of individual rights, refer to "The Ethics of Liberty"
       by Murray N. Rothbard.

    b) Government entities and wholly or partially government funded
       entities, and any associated entities, including the members,
       employees, contractors, affiliates, and net beneficiaries of
       such entities. This includes Corporations or other entities
       (including individuals) that hold contracts with government
       entities or government funded entities, and all associated
       entities, including the members, owners, employees, contractors
       and affiliates of such entities.

    c) Entities engaged in the advocacy or propagation of ideologies
       that are inimical to individual rights, including socialism,
       communism, fascism, racism, feminism, Marxism, collectivism,
       and statism; and any associated entities, including the
       members, owners, collaborators, beneficiaries, employees,
       contractors and affiliates of such entities.

If you are uncertain wether this license exclusion applies to you, you
should contact the Copyright Holder to ascertain if it does.

16. Entities that are excluded from the rights granted by this Open
Artistic License through license termination as per Section 14, or by
being listed in Section 15, may still, unless notified otherwise by
the Copyright Holder, distribute the Standard Version and Modified
Versions of the package. They may also execute any test suite included
with the Package as part of their participation in a public automated
quality assurance / testing network. However they may not use or study
any version of the Package, or create any Modified Versions.

17. You agree to ensure that your use and/or distribution of the
Package complies with all applicable laws. This license does not
authorize the use of the Package for, or in association with, any
illegal activity. You agree to indemnify the Copyright Holder for any
costs or consequences arising from your use or distribution of the
Package in violation of any applicable laws.

18. Disclaimer of Warranty: THE PACKAGE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES. THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE, OR NON-INFRINGEMENT ARE DISCLAIMED TO THE EXTENT
PERMITTED BY YOUR LOCAL LAW. UNLESS REQUIRED BY LAW, NO COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTOR WILL BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
INCIDENTAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THE PACKAGE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
